# GEMINI

What is Gemini? I think DT from DistroTube explains it well:

=> gemini://distro.tube distro.tube
=> https://distrotube.com distrotube.com

## WHY GEMINI?

I have decided to move my personal websites -- and some other projects -- over to the Gemini protocol for a number of reasons (in no specific order):

* Gemini-based capsules are easy to maintain
* Gemini-based capsules are fun to maintain!
* No tracking, ads, or any other uneeded fluff
* The community: From the short experience I have had with the Gemini community, it has been awesome! I love to see the motivation and movement behind this project, it's really inspiring!
* The development-sphere

## RESOURCES

### CLIENTS

Amfora: A very nice, feature-rich, and easy-to-use CLI client for Gemini, my client of choice.

=> https://github.com/makeworld-the-better-one/amfora Amfora

Bollux: A fun little CLI client for Gemini written in Bash! I mostly use this for quick and dirty testing and development purposes.

=> https://sr.ht/~acdw/bollux/ Bollux

### PROXIES

Kineto: A Gemini to HTTP proxy, simple and just works.

=> https://git.sr.ht/~sircmpwn/kineto Kineto

### FRAMEWORKS & SERVERS

Gig: A Golang framework for developing and deploying dynamic (or static) Gemini capsules.

=> https://github.com/pitr/gig Gig

Agate: A static Gemini server written in Rust! I'd recommend this to just about anyone!

=> gemini://gem.limpet.net/agate Agate

Mozz.us and Vuples.one Portals: Great Gemini to HTTP proxies, simple and intuitive.

=> https://portal.mozz.us portal.mozz.us
=> https://proxy.vulpes.one proxy.vulpes.one

### CAPSULES

=> gemini://gemini.circumlunar.space Project Gemini
=> gemini://medusae.space medusae.space gemini directory
=> gemini://gem.acdw.net acdw's gemini cottage
=> gemini://gem.chriswere.uk Chris's gemini capsule
=> gemini://gemini.barca.mi.it The Amazing Fnt400's Gemini Capsule
=> gemini://hexdsl.co.uk The Home of HexDSL
=> gemini://envs.net envs.net
=> gemini://rawtext.club rawtext.club